Lucious;	Black Mane/Barbary Lion;	08/23/2015;	Lucious is a very sweet lion. Unfortunately, he is also a very sick lion. He suffers from a genetic condition known as Hypovitaminosis, which is a condition affecting many lions bred in captivity. Lucious receives vitamin A treatments that will hopefully stabilize his condition, and we plan on having Sweet Lu be a part of The CARE Foundation for many years to come.;	
Tyrian;	Bengal/Siberian Tiger;	04/23/2015;	Tyrian originally came to us to be companion to one of our other older tigers. When that tiger sadly passed away, Tyrian found a new playmate in young Danarus.\n\nThey share an exercise area where they get to romp together almost every day. Tyrian is playful and social, but can break out in random acts of wildness. He certainly keeps us on our toes, but it makes us love him even more.;	
Danarus;	Bengal/Siberian Tiger;	05/07/2015;	Danarus came to us from California. Zoos are usually not interested in taking in mixed breed animals, so she was considered a “surplus animal” with nowhere to go. We happily took her in despite the fact that she exhibited every bad habit a young tiger could have. Given that she is super intelligent and a quick-learner, she soon settled into being a loving member of our big cat family (even though she still tackles her best buddy, Tyrian, on a regular basis).;	
Katrina;	Bengal/Siberian Tiger;	11/01/2015;	Katrina was a last minute surprise for us. The day before Danarus was shipped to us from California, we learned of another young tiger in the area that needed placement. At 9 weeks old, Katrina had already had three owners. She had been taken off the bottle far too early and was in dire need of a safe and stable home. So the next day, we picked up two tigers instead of one. Now “Special K” is the best-behaved tiger in the bunch (except when she gets growly over food).;	
Toshi;	Asian Black Leopard;	02/11/1995;	Toshi came to us with six other animals from a production facility that was forced to shut down. When she and her son, Makoto, came to us, they were nothing but skin and bones. Starving, we did not think either one of them would survive. But, with time, good food, and lots of TLC, Toshi and Makoto fought their way back to health.\n\nThe nutritional deficiencies Toshi underwent early in life means she is a bit smaller than most adult leopard females, but she makes up for it by being spunky and playful, even now that she is a senior citizen.;	
Makoto;	Asian Black Leopard;	07/05/1998;	Makoto also came from same production facility as his mother, Toshi, and just like the other animals we received, was underweight and needed a lot of attention to get back to good health.\n\nWhen he came in, we were told that Makoto was so aggressive that there had been talk of putting him down. However, once he regained his health and had a stable, suitable living environment, Makoto’s behavior issues became a thing of the past. Today, he is a playful, sweet leopard with a heart of gold.;	
Elita;	Piper Stock Florida Panther;	07/04/2006;	Elita was born in South Florida wildlife facility and was specially chosen to be an ambassador for her species. There are estimated to be only 100-180 wild Florida Panthers in existence today, and they and their habitats are in critical need of protection. Elita is a prime example of her species, with her powerful hind legs made for jumping and signature “swamp screamer” cry. She works hard to raise awareness about the struggles of the highly endangered Florida Panther and how we can help her and the rest of her kind from becoming extinct.;	
Rufio;	African Serval;	10/04/2013;	Rufio came to us a former production animal having been on stage and TV. However, when the production company who owned him could no longer use him, he just sat in a little cage doing nothing. So, his trainer brought him to live with us so that he could live a fuller life while still receiving the hands-on attention he was used to.\n\nWhen Rufio first arrived, he wasn’t really sure about the monkeys who lived next door, but once he got used to the noise, he settled in just fine. He loves to play in his pool and many of our staff and volunteers have walked away from his area after being “Serval Slimed.”;	
Hannibal;	Northern Bobcat;	05/10/2014;	Hannibal came to us from Montana to be a part of our educational team. When we realized he wasn’t really that fond of travelling, we decided to retire him to what has become one of our staff’s favorite “families.” He lives with an elderly raccoon, Louise, who helped raise him, plus three black and white domestic cats.\n\nThis motley crew is always up to something, whether it is sleeping in a big pile or bouncing off the walls for fun. Hannibal truly is a cherished and sweet member of our wild cat family.;	
Lola;	North American Black Bear;	01/2004;	Lola was purchased at a wildlife auction by a trainer to be used in a T.V. show that was filming here in Florida. When they were finished, the trainer was going to take her back to the auction to be sold. Bears very rarely go to good homes through auctions, and we felt she had been through enough, so we raised money to build her a home and take her in.\n\nNow she is our spokes-bear with the media when it comes to Black Bear issues in Florida. She works hard to help people respect local bears as we build homes further and further into their remaining habitat and is an ambassador for bear conservation world-wide.;	
Amos;	Black Handed Spider Monkey;	unknown;	Amos, Rosie, Andy and Dolly were the pets of an elderly couple, whose family gave them to us when the couple passed away. Amos was raised more like a child than a monkey. We realized the he had never been outside before and needed round-the-clock care given that he was prone to nightmares. Today, Amos plays outside as a monkey during the day, and at night, has a special area in the house where he can watch movies and sleep soundly knowing his favorite humans are nearby. He is also a celebrity with his own Facebook page.;	
Rosie;	White Faced Capuchin;	unknown;	When Rosie first came to us, her nickname was “The Grumpy Old Lady.” She was anxious and reacted very aggressively toward women. If someone got too close, she would grab their hair and bang their heads into her cage.\n\nAfter months of dedicated care, Rosie is now one of the sweetest monkeys in the world. She has learned how to jump and play. She is even learning some sign language and can ask her favorite people for a hug when she wants one. The “Grumpy Old Lady” is gone and now she has earned her new nickname, “The Happy Monkey!”;	
Chupacabra;	White Faced Capuchin;	unknown;	Chupe is a monkey with a big attitude… and teeth to match. His previous owner had him illegally, so FFWCC removed him and brought him to us. At some point in his life, Chupe’s back leg was broken and never treated. Understandably, he was incredibly aggressive toward people. This poor animal had such a rough life before he came to us that it took him weeks to calm down.\n\nDue to the dedication of our staff and volunteers, Chupe slowly learned that human attention could be a good thing. He still has his big scary teeth, but he is learning it is better to “kill with cute,” than with aggression. We are so proud that Chupe is now a well-loved, healthy member of our primate family.;	
Andy;	Tufted Capuchin;	unknown;	Andy came in from the same rescue as Amos, Rosie and Dolly. Like the others, he had a bit of an adjustment when he first came to us. He was being kept in a very small cage and really hadn’t interacted much with the other monkeys. We paired him with Dolly to see if he was sociable. They are now inseparable and play together nonstop.\n\nAndy is the protector of the group and makes sure that everything is safe before he lets any of his buddies meet new people. Once you win Andy’s affections, however, you are a lifetime friend… especially if you have treats.;	
Dolly;	Tufted Capuchin;	unknown;	Dolly came in from the same rescue as Amos, Rosie and Andy. We loved Dolly from the start for her sweet disposition and gentle manners.\n\nIt took us a while to realize how mischievous she really is. She likes to “cry wolf” and get the other monkeys excited, knowing that when she does, her favorite humans come running to see what the trouble is. Since humans give her lots of attention and treats, she has done a good job of training us to meet her every need.;	
Simi;	White Faced Capuchin;	unknown;	Simi was given to us from private owners who were very caring, but whose lifestyle was changing to include a lot of travelling. They didn’t want Simi to suffer, so they asked us to start caring for her. Monkeys, especially Capuchins, are like 3-year old children who live an average of 40+ years. They are a big commitment as pets, and you must be licensed to own them in Florida.\n\nWhile it was hard for them to let her go, her owners understood that she needed a permanent home where she would have the attention and companionship she needed. We are happy to have Simi as part of our family.;	
King Julien;	Ring-Tailed Lemur;	2016;	When Julien joined us at only a few weeks old, we started training him to be a part of our education team. He loves to travel and is extremely interactive with people. He works hard to help raise money for all of our animals by making people “dead with cute.”\n\nWe haven’t decided if he is crazy or just fearless, but one of his favorite moves is to pull the tail of our special needs lion, Lucious, as he walks by. Julien thinks it’s hilarious. And, yes, Julien does like to move it, move it!;	
Spartacus;	Moluccan Cockatoo;	12/15/2007;	Sparty was hand-raised as pet, but came to us when his owners started travelling and could no longer care for him. Cockatoos are extremely loving pets who bond with their owners and love to cuddle. But they are extremely loud, can be destructive when bored, and shed a powdery dust that gets absolutely everywhere. Plus with an average life span of 50-60 years, they are life-long companions, which is a big commitment for most people.\n\nWe love our “Party Sparty,” and he has become a highlight of our educational program. He imitates many sounds and his “fire alarm” has amazed many audiences in terms of both accuracy and decibel level.;	
Sonia;	Blue & Gold Macaw;	2008;	Sonia was another ex-pet who was raised by caring owners. However, when their grandchild moved in, it was no longer possible to keep Sonia. Macaws tend to bond with only one or two people and can be forces to be reckoned with. They are loud, especially at dusk, when they are prone to “screaming” fits. They can bluster and seem aggressive, but this is all a façade to hide their sensitive natures and surprisingly loving hearts.\n\nAfter a short settling-in period, Sonia bonded with one of our other macaws, Bosa. They are now a terrible, but loveable, twosome who can be heard no matter where you are on our 10-acre property. Oh, and poor Sonia is recovering well from an identity crisis. She was originally thought to be a female, but we now know she is a male. Oh well, Sonia is the only name he’s ever known, so we are sticking to it.;	
Zazoo;	Military Macaw;	unknown;	Zazoo was confiscated by animal control in Ohio. They were having trouble placing him, so he came to us. Like most macaws, Zazoo can sometimes be cranky and difficult, especially with strangers. But he settled in well and made friends with some of our other birds. He is highly intelligent, beautiful and quite playful with his favorite CAREtakers. Of course, he is loud, but we forgive him because sometimes when he gets excited, he actually blushes.;	
Mason;	Timber Wolf/Husky Hybrid;	unknown;	Mason was the companion of one of The CARE Foundation’s closest friends. When our friend unexpectedly passed away, we were honored to take over Mason’s training and care. He is a completely lovable animal but had not really been leash trained. He needed special handling given his wolfy nature. He was a little overzealous at times, so we paired him up with our South African Boerboel, Athena, and the two of them have been best buddies ever since. She helps him calm down, and he has helped her become more trusting of strangers.;	
Athena;	South African Boerboel;	unknown;	Also known as the South African Mastiff, Boerboels are large, dominant dogs who were specifically bred to be working farm and guard dogs, but have been known to be trained to hunt lions. Athena came to us when her owner’s health condition made it impossible to continue to care for the dog. Athena was undergoing security training and thus needed trained and knowledgeable handlers. She is super sweet but shy and leery of strangers. We paired her up with our wolf hybrid, Mason, and it was a great match. His hyper-friendliness helped her become more open to meeting strangers, and she helped him chill out.;	
Pretty Girl;	American Pit Bull Terrier;	unknown;	Pretty Girl was found wandering near a highway. She was severely malnourished, had bite marks all over her, and showed signs of recently birthing puppies. We believe that she was most likely a “bait” dog for a dog-fighting ring. We usually do not take in domestic animals, but there was no way we were going to turn her away. It took us weeks to nurse her back to health, and by that time, she had stolen our hearts and become part of the CARE family. Pretty Girl is now the companion of another pitbull, Jack, who she loves to cuddle and play with.;	
Jack;	American Pit Bull Terrier;	unknown;	Biography coming soon!;	
Ingozi;	East African Nile Crocodile;	unknown;	We saw Ingozi at a small Reptile Distributor headed for the pet trade. We thought that was incredibly irresponsible as Nile Crocodiles are the second largest reptile in the world today. They are highly aggressive and very dangerous animals. We decided to take him in to make sure he had the proper care and maintenance for an animal that can grow up to 20 ft long and reach weights of more than 1,500 lbs.;	
Tiny;	American Alligator;	unknown;	With more than 1.5 million alligators in the state of Florida, you would think we would run into them all the time in our daily lives. The truth is, they want to avoid us as much as we want to avoid them… unless we do something irresponsible like feeding them.\n\nThis is how Tiny became a resident with us. Someone was feeding him, and he started to associate humans with food. Florida Fish & Wildlife was called in when he was seen following some children around a neighborhood. Deemed a “nuisance” gator, he was not a candidate for release. So, now he serves as an on-site education animal helping us to teach people to respect these animals and keep their distance.;	
Brutus;	American Alligator (runt);	1996;	Our director, Christin, was visiting an alligator farm when she saw a small gator being thrown in with a group of much larger and older animals. When farms like this produce a “runt,” they often throw them in with other gators as food, which is also what happens to runts in the wild. They get picked off by other prey.\n\nChristin decided that this shouldn’t be Brutus’ fate, so she jumped into the pen, pulled the other alligators off him, and saved him. Because she is both crazy and had the proper licensing, the farm let her keep him. With missing toes and a badly injured eye, Brutus required a lot of care to nurse him back to health. Now this little gator is a fantastic ambassador for his species in our educational program.;	
Goliath;	African Spur Thigh Tortoise;	unknown;	Goliath was taken away from his owner after the man tried to sell the tortoise for drugs. When he came to us, we were stunned to see what Goliath had been eating. When he went to the bathroom, we found bits of drywall and even Mardi Gras beads. Apparently he had been starving and was eating whatever he could find on the floor of the house where he was being kept.\n\nWe nursed him back to health, and he now serves as a great example of how people buy an animal at a pet store without really knowing what they are getting into. Goliath started off at 2-3 inches but is on his way to being 2-3 feet long. Spur Thigh Tortoises eat a lot – more than most people realize. They also like to burrow, so if they are outside they often burrow under houses and can cause extensive property damage.\n\nGoliath could also live to be over 100 years old. So before you get a pet, make sure you research it well… and don’t try to sell them for drugs!;	
Crawley;	Black & White Tegu;	unknown;	Originally from Argentina, this lizard usually inhabits the tropical rain forests, savannas, and semi-deserts of east and central South America. We found him crossing a highway here in Central Florida. Tegus are considered an invasive species in Florida. Due to the devastation of Hurricane Andrew, several reptile breeding facilities were destroyed, leaving their inhabitants to roam and breed freely.\n\nTegus are usually quite aggressive. They have been known to chase both children and pets. But Crawley is a super sweet lizard who has become part of our education program, teaching about the challenges of invasive species and what we can responsibly do to address the problems they cause.;	
Blonde;	Albino Burmese Python;	unknown;	Blonde came to us from a young boy who bought him as a small snake at a reptile show. The boy did a good job caring for his pet, keeping the snake warm and feeding him well. As Blonde grew larger, the boy’s mother asked how big the snake would get. The boy said he didn’t know, so they went on the internet to find out.\n\nImagine their surprise when they learned that the “little snake” they bought is actually one of the largest snake species on Earth. Burmese Pythons average between 16-23 feet long and over 200 lbs. In Florida, these snakes must be microchipped, and owners must maintain a license to keep the animal. The CARE Foundation is one of a select group of licensed reptile handlers who can take in these large constrictors, so Blonde found a new home with us.;	
Venomous Reptiles;	Black Mamba, Spitting Cobras, and more;	various;	The CARE Foundation is one of a select group of reptile rescues that are licensed to take in venomous animals. We have a wide variety of reptiles including a Black Mamba, Spitting Cobras, various rattlesnakes, Gila monsters and more. Many of these animals were confiscated from people who purchased and kept them illegally as pets.;	